---
type: Research Clipping
title: "AHS Persona Dissertation"
description: "Personas can be used in a variety of contexts: capturing of user requirements for a particular solution, a perspective in how to approach aspects of Organizational Change Management and finally as..."
timestamp: 2026-06-26T19:19:05Z
---

## Background

Personas can be used in a variety of contexts: capturing of user requirements for a particular solution, a perspective in how to approach aspects of Organizational Change Management and finally as a reusable infographic for better understanding the business processes that affect staff within a particular environment.  This is an aspect of the Enterprise Architecture that has yet to be elaborated, but included here as food for thought.

Personas were created by [Alan Cooper](http://www.cooper.com/category/personas/) and discussed quite a bit initially in his book [The Inmates are Running the Asylum](http://www.amazon.ca/Summary-Inmates-Running-Asylum-ebook/dp/B008L1FUSW/ref=sr_1_4?ie=UTF8&qid=1379445612&sr=8-4&keywords=alan+cooper+the+inmates).  Since then, much of the work on personas has been limited to web site design and navigation.  The goal of personas is to make sure that the developer, writer or other person out of what they assume the user wants based on their own experience and design for the real goals of the user. [[About Face - The Essentials of Interaction Design]].

### What is a Persona, and how is it used?

**Personas** are fictional characters created to represent the different user types within a targeted demographic, attitude and/or behaviour set that might use a site, brand or product in a similar way. The term persona is used widely in online and technology applications as well as in advertising, where other terms such as _pen portraits_ may also be used.

[[Building a Domain Persona]] involves considering the goals, desires, and limitations of brand buyers and users in order to help to guide decisions about a service, product or interaction space such as features, interactions, and visual design of a website. Personas may also be used as part of a user-centred design process, often referred to as Human Factors Design for designing software and are also considered a part of interaction design (IxD), having been used in industrial design and more recently for online marketing purposes.

A **user persona** is a representation of the goals and behaviour of a hypothesized group of aggregated users. In most cases, personas are synthesized from data collected from interviews with users. They are captured in 1–2 page descriptions that include behaviour patterns, goals, skills, attitudes, and environment, with a few fictional personal details to make the persona a realistic character. For each product, more than one persona is usually created, but one persona should always be the primary focus for the design.

The concept of understanding customer segments as communities with coherent identity was developed in 1993-4 by Angus Jenkinson [[1]](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Persona_%28user_experience%29#cite_note-1)[[2]](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Persona_%28user_experience%29#cite_note-2) and internationally adopted by OgilvyOne with clients using the name CustomerPrints as "day-in-the-life archetype descriptions".[[3]](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Persona_%28user_experience%29#cite_note-3) Creating imaginal or fictional characters to represent these customer segments or communities followed. Jenkinson's approach was to describe an imaginal character in their real interface, behaviour and attitudes with the brand, and the idea was initially realized with Michael Jacobs in a series of studies. In 1997 the Ogilvy global knowledge management system, Truffles, described the concept as follows: "Each strong brand has a tribe of people who share affinity with the brand’s values. This universe typically divides into a number of different communities within which there are the same or very similar buying behaviours, and whose personality and characteristics towards the brand (product or service) can be understood in terms of common values, attitudes and assumptions. CustomerPrints are descriptions that capture the living essence of these distinct groups of customers." [[4]](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Persona_%28user_experience%29#cite_note-4)

Parallel to this [Alan Cooper](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alan_Cooper "Alan Cooper"), a noted pioneer software developer, developed a related concept, which he named _personas._ From 1995 he became engaged with how a specific rather than generalized user would use and interface with software. The technique was popularized for the online business and technology community in his 1999 book _The Inmates are Running the Asylum_. In this book, Cooper outlines the general characteristics, uses and best practices for creating personas, recommending that software be designed for single archetypal users.[[5]](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Persona_%28user_experience%29#cite_note-5)

According to Pruitt and Adlin (2006),[[6]](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Persona_%28user_experience%29#cite_note-pruittadlin-6) the use of personas offers several benefits in product development (cf. Grudin and Pruitt, 2002; Cooper, 1999). Personas are said to be cognitively compelling because they put a personal human face on otherwise abstract data about customers. By thinking about the needs of a fictional persona, designers may be better able to infer what a real person might need. Such inference may assist with brainstorming, use case specification, and features definition. Pruitt and Adlin argue that personas are easy to communicate to engineering teams and thus allow engineers, developers, and others to absorb customer data in a palatable format. They present several examples of personas used for purposes of communication in various development projects.[[6]](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Persona_%28user_experience%29#cite_note-pruittadlin-6)

Personas also help prevent some common design pitfalls which may otherwise be easy to fall into. The first is designing for what Cooper calls "The Elastic User" — by which he means that while making product decisions different stakeholders may define the 'user' according to their convenience. Defining personas helps the team have a shared understanding of the real users in terms of their goals, capabilities and contexts. Personas also help prevent "self referential design" when the designer or developer may unconsciously project their own mental models on the product design which may be very different from that of the target user population. Personas also provide a reality check by helping designers keep the focus of the design on cases that are most likely to be encountered for the target users and not on edge cases which usually won't happen for the target population. According to Cooper, edge cases which should naturally be handled properly should not become the design focus (Cooper, 1999).

The benefits are summarized as (Cooper, 1999):

- Help team members share a specific, consistent understanding of various audience groups. Data about the groups can be put in a proper context and can be understood and remembered in coherent stories.
- Proposed solutions can be guided by how well they meet the needs of individual user personas. Features can be prioritized based on how well they address the needs of one or more personas.
- Provide a human "face" so as to focus empathy on the persons represented by the demographics.

Some designers feel that personas should be based on ethnographic research into users and should not be based purely on the creator's imagination. The use of ethnographic research helps the creation of a number of archetype users that can be used to develop products that deliver positive user experiences. By feeding in real data, ethnographic research allows design teams to avoid generating stereotypical users that may bear no relation to the actual user’s reality.

In terms of scientific logic, it has been argued that because personas are fictional, they have no clear relationship to real customer data and therefore cannot be considered scientific. Chapman & Milham (2006)[[7]](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Persona_%28user_experience%29#cite_note-chapman-7) described the purported flaws in considering personas as a scientific research method. They argued that there is no procedure to work reliably from given data to specific personas, and thus such a process is not subject to the scientific method of reproducible research.

For practical implementation, Portigal (2008) has claimed that personas give a "cloak of smug customer-centricity" while actually distancing a team from engagement with real users and their needs. He argued that real-world stories and customer immersion would better serve designers to understand the needs of users.

A fourth problem with using personas is that some organizations are not ready for the methodology. Creating hypothetical users with real names, stories and personalities may seem unserious and whimsical to some people, teams or organizations.

In empirical results, the research to date has offered soft metrics for the success of personas, such as anecdotal feedback from stakeholders. Rönkkö (2005) has described how team politics and other organizational issues led to limitations of the personas method in one set of projects. Chapman, Love, Milham, Elrif, and Alford (2008[[8]](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Persona_%28user_experience%29#cite_note-chapman2-8)) have demonstrated with survey data that descriptions with more than a few attributes (e.g., such as a persona) are likely to describe very few if any real people. They argued that personas cannot be assumed to be descriptive of actual customers.

A study conducted by Long (2009)[[9]](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Persona_%28user_experience%29#cite_note-long-9) claimed support for Cooper, Pruitt _et al._ in the use of personas. In a partially controlled study, a group of students were asked to solve a design brief; two groups used personas while one group did not. The students who used personas were awarded higher course evaluations that the group who did not. Students who used personas were assessed as having produced designs with better usability attributes than students who did not use personas. The study also suggests that using personas may improve communication between design teams and facilitate user-focused design discussion. The study had several limitations: outcomes were assessed by a professor and students who were not blind to the hypothesis, students were assigned to groups in non-random fashion, there was no replication or sampling (overall sample size is an N=1 single trial), and there was no control of other contributing factors or expectation effects

**A** **scenario** is a narrative, which most commonly describes foreseeable interactions of user roles (known in the Unified Modeling Language as 'actors') and the technical system, which usually includes computer hardware and software.

A scenario has a **goal**, which is usually functional. A scenario describes one way that a system is or is envisaged to be used in the context of activity in a defined time-frame. The time-frame for a scenario could be (for example) a single transaction; a business operation; a day or other period; or the whole operational life of a system. Similarly the scope of a scenario could be (for example) a single system or piece of equipment; an equipped team or department; or an entire organization.

Scenarios are frequently used as part of the system development process. They are typically produced by usability or marketing specialists, often working in concert with end users and developers. Scenarios are written in plain language, with minimal technical details, so that stakeholders (designers, usability specialists, programmers, engineers, managers, marketing specialists, etc.) can have a common example which can focus their discussions.

Increasingly, scenarios are used directly to define the wanted behaviour of software: replacing or supplementing traditional functional requirements. Scenarios are often defined in use cases, which document alternative and overlapping ways of reaching a goal.[[](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scenario_%28computing%29#cite_note-1)

Many types of scenario are in use in system development. Alexander and Maiden[[2]](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scenario_%28computing%29#cite_note-AlexMaid-2) list the following types:

- [**Story**](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Narrative "Narrative"): "a narrated description of a causally connected sequence of events, or of actions taken".[[2]](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scenario_%28computing%29#cite_note-AlexMaid-2) :8-10 Brief User stories are written in the Agile style of software development.[[3]](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scenario_%28computing%29#cite_note-Cohn.2C_2004-3)

o    A **narrative** (or **story**) is any account of connected events, presented to a reader or listener in a sequence of written or spoken words, or in a sequence of (moving) pictures.[[1]](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Narrative#cite_note-1)

o    **Narratives** can be organized in a number of thematic and/or formal/stylistic categories: non-fiction; fictionalized accounts of historical events; and fiction proper . Narrative is found in all forms of human creativity and art, including speech, writing, songs, film, television, games, photography, theatre, and visual arts such as painting that describes a sequence of events. The word derives from the Latin verb _narrare_, "to tell", which is derived from the adjective _gnarus_, "knowing" or "skilled".[[2]](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Narrative#cite_note-2)

- **Situation, Alternative World**: "a projected future situation or snapshot". This meaning is common in planning, but less usual in software development.[[2]](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scenario_%28computing%29#cite_note-AlexMaid-2) :10
- **Simulation**: models to explore and animate 'Stories' or 'Situations', to "give precise answers about whether such a scenario could be realized with any plausible design" or "to evaluate the implications of alternative possible worlds or situations".[[2]](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scenario_%28computing%29#cite_note-AlexMaid-2) :10-11
- **Storyboard**: a drawing, or a sequence of drawings, used to describe a user interface or to tell a story. This meaning is common in Human–computer interaction to define what a user will see on a screen.[[2]](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scenario_%28computing%29#cite_note-AlexMaid-2) :12
- **Sequence**: a list of interactive steps taken by human or machine agents playing system roles. The many forms of scenario written as sequences of steps include Operational Scenarios, Concepts of Operations, and Test Cases.[[2]](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scenario_%28computing%29#cite_note-AlexMaid-2) :12-14
- **Structure**: any more elaborately-structured representation of a scenario, including Flowcharts, UML/ITU 'Sequence Charts', and especially in software development Use cases.[[2]](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scenario_%28computing%29#cite_note-AlexMaid-2) :14-17

Negative scenarios or misuse cases may be written to indicate likely threats which should be countered to ensure that systems have sufficient security, safety, and reliability. These help to discover non-functional requirements.[[4]](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scenario_%28computing%29#cite_note-Negative-4)

Scenarios have numerous possible applications in system development. Carroll (1995) lists 10 different "roles of scenarios in the system development lifecycle":[[5]](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scenario_%28computing%29#cite_note-Carroll1995-5)

1. **Requirements analysis**: scenarios describe the "state-of-the-art" (often called "as-is"); acted scenarios help to discover requirements as analysts "stage a simulated work situation".
2. **User-designer communication**: users contribute scenarios important to them, or situations they want to experience or avoid.[[5]](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scenario_%28computing%29#cite_note-Carroll1995-5)
3. **Design rationale**: rationale can explain design "with respect to particular scenarios of user interaction".[[5]](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scenario_%28computing%29#cite_note-Carroll1995-5)
4. **Envisionment**: scenarios "can be a medium for working out what a system being designed should look like and do." In this role, scenarios can be "graphical mockups such as storyboards or video-based simulations", and may form early prototypes of the system under design.[[5]](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scenario_%28computing%29#cite_note-Carroll1995-5)
5. **Software design**: "scenarios can be analyzed to identify the central problem domain objects" needed; the same scenarios can be developed to describe the objects' state, behavior and interactions.[[5]](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scenario_%28computing%29#cite_note-Carroll1995-5)
6. **Implementation**: software can be built one scenario at a time, helping "to keep developers focused" and "producing code that is more generally useful".[[5]](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scenario_%28computing%29#cite_note-Carroll1995-5)