The seminal work by Robert S. Kaplan and David P. Norton was originally published as [Balanced Scorecard - Measures that Drive Performance](https://hbr.org/1992/01/the-balanced-scorecard-measures-that-drive-performance-2) in the January/February 1992 edition of the Harvard Business Review. This has the opening line that has become a truism for performance management, "What you measure is what you get."

It is here that the original four perspectives of Financial, Customer, Internal, and Learning are introduced. This was an attempt to move past the focus on finance that affects (largely) publicly traded companies and expand into other views of the organization that are interdependent. In order to be able to get the appropriate perspective, each of these perspectives are then broken now into goals and then further into measurable objectives.

The keys highlighted in the original article was to come up with a [[Stealth EA/Blog Entries/The power of a one page model|one page]] measurement model or dashboard management report. The next goal was to, "guard against sub-optimization". In other words, make sure that financial performance was not being sacrificed at the sake of the other foundations that make up a successful organization. The balance of the original organization went on to provide examples from the organizations in the original study.

It took four more years until in 1996 that the [Balanced Scorecard - Translating Strategy to Action](https://www.hbs.edu/faculty/Pages/item.aspx?num=8831) book was released and caught on and has remained relevant in business management. This book took the foundation of the scorecard further by introducing a mechanism cascade the overarching objectives of the organization through to organizational units to achieve the intended objectives. The intent was to then provide individual scorecards for each person in the organization.

In a later book published in 2000, the [Strategy-Focused Organization](https://www.hbs.edu/faculty/Pages/item.aspx?num=5595), Kaplan took this concept of cascade further. They created a hierarchy of looking to link Mission to Values, Vision and then Strategy and the associated strategic initiatives that are intended to change the measures within one or more balanced scorecards across the organization.

For the aspiring or even the accomplished Stealth EA, the concepts within the Balanced Scorecard are worth spending some time reading and understanding. In larger organizations there are teams responsible for just doing this function. While many organizations will not explicitly follow the balanced scorecard naming convention, there are usually variations on the theme. As a Stealth EA, understanding this measure framework is a path to helping this team be more successful.

Creating a useful measurement framework is hard. Creating one that is able to cascade down the organization is even harder. Creating measures absent a business context is very, very difficult. Since the Balanced Scorecard came out, the discipline of Business Architecture has evolved to provide some more tools to assist in making scorecard measures more meaningful. 

Specifically, breaking the organization into [[Business Domain Architecture|Business Domains]] and the [[Value Streams]] each domain is responsible for. Value streams inherently create the customer perspective for a particular domain. Each value stream or value stream stage can then be linked to an appropriate goal and/or measurable objective. A domain's collection of value streams can be then aggregated into a scorecard for the domain. This allows for a bottom-up domain dashboard process to enhance the top-down strategic themes and goals that span the entire organization.

The Balanced Scorecard is a well-established measurement framework. Stealth EA recommends this as the generic standard for any organization that does not have a competing standard. 

